=pod

=head1 NAME

       __  __          __                
      / / / /___ _____/ /___  ____  ____ 
     / /_/ / __ `/ __  / __ \/ __ \/ __ \
    / __  / /_/ / /_/ / /_/ / /_/ / /_/ /
   /_/ /_/\__,_/\__,_/\____/\____/ .___/ 
                                /_/      

Hadoop -  Hadoop is a software platform that lets one easily write and run applications that process vast amounts of data.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: hadoop [--config confdir] COMMAND

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Here's what makes Hadoop especially useful:

    * Scalable: Hadoop can reliably store and process petabytes.
    * Economical: It distributes the data and processing across clusters of commonly available computers. These clusters can number into the thousands of nodes.
    * Efficient: By distributing the data, Hadoop can process it in parallel on the nodes where the data is located. This makes it extremely rapid.
    * Reliable: Hadoop automatically maintains multiple copies of data and automatically redeploys computing tasks based on failures.

Hadoop implements MapReduce, using the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) (see figure below.) MapReduce divides applications into many small blocks of work. HDFS creates multiple replicas of data blocks for reliability, placing them on compute nodes around the cluster. MapReduce can then process the data where it is located.

For more details about hadoop, see the Hadoop Wiki at http://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --config configdir 

Overrides the C<HADOOP_CONF_DIR> environment variable.  See C<ENVIRONMENT> section below.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item namenode -format     

format the DFS filesystem

=item secondarynamenode    i

run the DFS secondary namenode

=item namenode

run the DFS namenode

=item datanode

run a DFS datanode

=item dfsadmin

run a DFS admin client

=item fsck

run a DFS filesystem checking utility

=item fs

run a generic filesystem user client

=item balancer

run a cluster balancing utility

=item jobtracker

run the MapReduce job Tracker node

=item pipes

run a Pipes job

=item tasktracker

run a MapReduce task Tracker node

=item job

manipulate MapReduce jobs

=item version

print the version

=item jar <jar>

run a jar file

=item distcp <srcurl> <desturl> 

copy file or directories recursively

=item archive -archiveName NAME <src>* <dest> 

create a hadoop archive

=item daemonlog

get/set the log level for each daemon

=item CLASSNAME

run the class named CLASSNAME

=back

Most commands print help when invoked w/o parameters.

=head1 FILES

All configuration files are in the C</etc/hadoop/config> directory.  

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item JAVA_HOME

Hadoop will honor the location of your JAVA_HOME environment variable.  Hadoop requires Sun Java 1.6.

=item HADOOP_CONF_DIR

Hadoop will look for configuration files in the C</etc/hadoop/config> directory.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

java(1), alternatives(8)

=cut





